January 27, 2025 - Week 1
Progress: What have you accomplished since last week’s post?
I have accomplished the following so far:
1) Extracted most of the data that I will be using for my project with the exception of year 2019 - historical sales and inventory levels.
2) Created a csv file containing the door count/foot traffic data for all three locations of JDC for the relevant years.
3) Interviewed & Shadowed the following: a) Current 'Inventory Manager' at JDC who has been in the position for approx. 9 years and is planning on retiring soon. 
b) Inventory Assistant (who plays an important role because she has been with the company for a long time, but does not fully understand best practices of inventory management
because for so long they have basically 'flown by the seat of their pants'.)
c) Met and Interviewed the second owner/client (Denver Toone) - who will have a more hands-on role in this project.
d) Sat in on 2 separate 'inventory' meetings with company stakeholders, including a consultant who oversees the POS/Analytics software (which is not being utilized to its capacity.)

Problems: What are you stuck on or struggling with?
So far I haven't encountered too many problems, but I can foresee problems on the horizon. I haven't recieved all of the data yet, but I feel confident I will get that resolved 
this week. After interviewing many current employees, I do have some fear that the process may become difficult because of 'fear of change'. I have personally been well-received, but there 
are many individuals who have expressed the resistance to change has been very prevalent in the recent past. Overcoming obstacles like this could be very challenging. My plan is to be 
open-minded and respectful of key positions and to present things in a very positive way. After meeting with some key people including the inventory consultant I learned that 60% of
their current on-hand inventory is 'aged' - meaning it is >3 years old, some upwards of 10 years. Their total inventory currently sits north of $11 million. This obviously does not
happen overnight. Inventory turn for this industry is 1x annually. Because the majority of inventory hasn't moved in such a long time, they need to be extremely aggressive in discounting
and implementing other strategies to move. Basically, 40% of their inventory is carrying the business but if we can implement some processes to correct this, they can be very successful.
Right now, it just screams "there is A LOT of work to do!!" 

Plans: What do you intend to accomplish between now and next week’s post?
I intend to get 100% of the data I'm looking for, and to also connect more deeply with some of the key players who will be able to assist me with this project. I'd like to begin cleaning
the data in order to begin some EDA.

How many hours did you spend working on your Capstone since last week’s post?
So far I have spent roughly 40 hours (or more). I spend 4 full days in Spokane at the headquarters interviewing and shadowing people. Another multitude of hours manually entering 
door counts for 6 years, and many more hours researching, reading, writing and thinking.

February 3, 2025 - Week 2

Progress: What have you accomplished since last week’s post?
1. We determined that working with sales data from 2020-2024 is sufficient. After talking to the client, his feeling about 2019 was that it is irrelevant, stating “we live in a post-covid world”. I will proceed with sales for 5 years for locations 1 & 2, and 1 year + 3 months for location 3. I also pulled an inventory report from the POS. It appears to be everything I need to get started. I’ve been cleaning this csv file to ensure naming conventions are accurate between the sales and inventory variables. 
2. I got a digital version of a book titled, “Forecasting; Principles and Practice” by Rob Hyndman and George Athanasopoulos which I have started reading. They talk about Time Series Regression Models, Exponential Smoothing, and ARIMA models. The book uses R and offers a lot of example code with detailed explanations. 
3. Now that I have data, and it is somewhat clean, my plan is to start with visualizing it this week using various methods explained in the above book.

Problems: What are you stuck on or struggling with?
1. Honestly I have not yet defined the business problem. I’ve discovered the way in which the inventory is categorized and entered into the POS has been a little haphazard and could present some problems. They currently have 91 categories of inventory, and they have allowed the ability to ‘add’ fields arbitrarily when entering inventory into the system. After doing some EDA and visualization I am hopeful that a more defined problem will present itself. They have many aspects of the business including repair and service, and this alone could offer some possibilities. TBD
2. I had a conversation with the client, and he is acting apprehensive about what I am doing. He stated, “your project is secondary” in the context of priorities. I don’t think he fully understands what the project entails and this could be partially due to not having the business problem defined. 

Plans: What do you intend to accomplish between now and next week’s post?
1. I plan on spending the next few days/weeks doing as much EDA and visualization as I can, and to outline a specific problem to solve. 

How many hours did you spend working on your Capstone since last week’s post? Between 8-12 hours.
